Here, I present ThamnoFEAST. A database comprised of dietary records from across the garter snake (Thamnophis) genus.  While incomplete in terms of phylogeny, geography, and sources, this repository is a starting point to the creation of a truly comprehensive database of all garter snake dietary records. This database will increase accessibility of these records for use in future studies and experiments, while promoting new ideas and changes to management strategies and policy.

Dietary Record Collection
Between October 2022 and January 2023, Thamnophis dietary records were collected from a combination of formal publications, natural history notes, and through personal communication with collaborating researchers. Formal, peer-reviewed articles and books provided the majority of our records. These sources were found primarily through Google Scholar, with additional sources coming from within the literature citepd of these publications. Natural history notes, such as Herpetological Review, also provided many novel records. Lastly, unpublished records were gathered through personal communication with researchers focusing on many of the lesser studied Thamnophis species. We included data only if quantitative counts were reported, or could be deciphered from the text (E.g. "4 Hyla cinerea were consumed by T. sirtalis" or "Out of 20 prey items found inside T. sirtalis, 75% were Rana clamitans), while records that only reported qualitative or percentages with no sample size were excluded from the database. We also made efforts to ensure records reported were in multiple publications were not included multiple times in the database. For each record, we identified the snake to the lowest possible level of taxonomic classification, using geographic locations to identify subspecies when possible. Prey was also identified to the lowest possible taxonomic level; however, many records could not be classified to species level due to the format of the reports. For all records of prey identified to species level, we included the specific species epithet as reported in the literature and the current epithet as listed in the NCBI Taxonomy Browser. Additional data such as source of the record, geographic coordinates, general location, snake snout-vent length (SVL), snake sex, and snake age class were collected when available.

The database we compiled for Thamnophis dietary records currently spans 32 of the 35 currently recognized species (no records were found for T. exsul, T. postremus. or T. unilabialis). Currently, the database has 9,570 predation records from 169 total sources. Records per species vary widely, ranging from 0 to 3,409. We recovered 0 records for three species, between 1 and 10 records for eight species, between 11 and 50 records for six species, between 51 and 100 records for six species, between 101 and 500 records for nine species, and over 501 records for three species, with an average of 273.43 records per species.


Data Availability
The Dietary database can be downloaded ThamnoFEAST-GloBI/Thamnophis_Diet_records.csv in its original form. Additionally, it can be found in the GloBI database HERE. 

